Welcome back.
I have a fun little exercise for you.
And now you're asking yourself, Andre.
You say all the exercises are fun.
You are a big liar.
All right.
Fair point.
But I think this one is going to be fun, so stick with me.
I want you to write a function, actually, to functions that finds the factorial of any number.
Now.
Why?
Two functions.
Well, one function is going to be recursive using what we just learned, where we have to create a
base case, we have to follow the steps.
Right.
If we go back, we have to identify a base case and a recursive case and then finally make sure that
we return both cases.
So this recursive function is going to return an answer.
But what is a factorial?
A good way to think about factorial is this notation five exclamation mark.
Factorial simply means multiply five times four times three times two times one.
You keep going down one by one, multiplying each number until you get to one.
So six factorial will be six times.
Five times four times three times two times one.
And you'll notice here that it's a recursion pattern that we're doing.
We call the function.
And we have two cases that can happen.
We have the base case to stop or recursive case and so on and so forth.
And we keep going, keep going, keep going until we hit one.
So I want you to build a function that does this for us.
I'm going to write the function factorial.
You're going to put in five and it's going to run through this.
But remember our definition of recursion.
Recursion is when you define something in terms of itself.
Now, a good way to think about factorial is this.
Five factorial is simply five times four factorial.
You see over here, five times four factorial is factorial.
Five.
Five times, four times three factorial, four times three is five factorial because four times factorial
three equals factorial four.
And you see here how we might have a recursion function that we can write using this knowledge.
See if you can create a function that allows you to do this.
Now, when it comes to this question, there's two ways that you can go about it.
You can do the recursive approach where the function calls itself, or you can do the iterative approach,
which means looping.
And most of you are probably going to find it easier to solve it with this way with just a four loop,
for example.
I'm going to leave this up to you to figure out, see if you can do both functions and see if they give
you the right number.
And in the next video, I'll show you the answer.
I'll see you in that one.
Good luck.